# Grammar word generator

This is a simple word generator from the grammar of a formal language.
It provides an unbounded number of words, as long as the grammar allows so.
The words are provided as an iterator, and it generates the words on the fly.

Currently, there are two strategies for generating words:

- **Depth-first**: the words are generated by going down the tree
  of the grammar's production rules. From each node, it visits
  its children first and then continues with the sibling nodes.
  Because it is possible for the grammar rules to create nodes
  with infinite recursion with no actual words (strings of terminal symbols),
  this strategy requires a recursion limit to be provided.
  This limit is used as the maximum number of steps of applying the rules
  one after another.
- **Breadth-first**: the words are generated by going down each level
  of the tree. Level means the same as the number of steps of applying
  the rules one after another to produce a string of symbols.
  Hence, it provides the words from the smallest number
  of steps of applying the rules to the highest number of said steps.
  Note that this algorithm's next function is not guaranteed
  to return if all the possible words have been generated,
  as it does not check for recursion in the production rules
  where the recursion does not lead to any words.

Note that the algorithms do not guarantee there will be no collisions
in the generated words. However, they do guarantee that the steps of applying
each of the rules will be unique (the path to the word).

## License

This project is provided under the MIT license:

(c) 2026 Richard Tichý

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
